README.md: Add initial version (#8)
zephyrproject-rtos/hal_gigadevice: README.md

configurations for GigaDevice MCUs. The HAL is organized following the below
directory structure.

## Directory Structure

The directory is composed by three parts:

 - SoC specific libraries.
 - ZephyrRTOS module directory.
 - This README file.

### ARM

Each ARM firmware library is organized in the following structure:

```
.
└── gd32xxx
    ├── cmsis
    │   └── gd
    │       └── gd32xxx
    └── standard_peripheral
        ├── include
        └── source
```

### RISC-V

The RISC-V structure is not defined yet. The riscv sub-directory will change
based on how [NMSIS library](https://github.com/Nuclei-Software/NMSIS/) will
be implemented in Zephyr. At present date, the structure only reflects current
manufacturer version.

```
└── gd32bf103
    ├── riscv
    │   ├── drivers
    │   ├── env_eclipse
    │   ├── env_iar
    │   └── stubs
    └── standard_peripheral
        ├── include
        └── source
```

 Any contribution should follow the `How to submit code` using as premisses the
 [Zephyr Contribution Guidelines](https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/contribute/index.html).

# How to submit code

 - When submiting an updated firmware library version, it is important make

>    sure that the last firmware version will be merged. The library version can

Reviewer: `... version is used`

   be checked at [GigaDevice MCU Site](http://www.gd32mcu.com/en/download/).
 - This repository is managed mainly on Linux. This means that changes should
   be submited using Linux LF format. Usually running a similar command to
   `find * type f -print0 | xargs -0 dos2unix -k` should be enough.
 - Make sure directory structure is respected.
 - Directory names should be converted to lowercase.
 - Run `gd32_api_check` script to make sure gd32 public API is conformance.
   Adjusts should be made otherwise code can be reject. Exceptions should be

>    discussed at review phase.

Reviewer: if not available, this should be removed for now

## The gd32 standard peripheral API

The gd32 standard peripheral API was changed to avoid that macros, enum values
and function names colide with content from both ZephyrRTOS core and libraries.

The are two general rules:

 - Public API funtions must be prefixed with `gd32_`.
 - Public defines and enum values must be uppercase and prefixed with `GD32_`.

The cmsis and riscv contents are not part of standard peripheral library and
changes are treated as exceptions. This means that `<firmware_library>.h>` and

> `system_<firmware_library>.h>` files should reside on that places.

Reviewer: `on the same place`?

Author: This is because of _The gd32vf103 firmware library have system files at standard peripheral
directory. This move system files to right place at riscv system directory._

### Grace Period

Rework gd32 standard peripheral API is a huge step. To allow developers move
forward a grace period was created. The grace period is available until
`gd32_api_convert` script be available. When the script be available any new
firmware library must be converted.

Besides there is a grace period developers are obligated to solve any existent
conflict. The conflict should follow gd32 standard peripheral API rules.

The current know conflict are listed below with respective correction:

 - `<firmware_library>_timer.h/c`: `timer_init()` should be converted to
   `gd32_timer_init()`.
 - `<firmware_library>_can.h/c`, all `CAN_` defines should be converted to

>    `GD32_CAN_`.

Reviewer: Since the script is not yet there, I'd suggest to explain:

1. Current API issues (ie no namespacing)
2. Rules to apply when this happens, and list of known cases.
3. Mention that a script will likely be created to automate conversion of all public API.

Author: Sure!

manufacturer version.

```
└── gd32bf103
    ├── riscv
    │   ├── drivers
    │   ├── include
    │   ├── source
    │   └── stubs
    └── standard_peripheral
        ├── include
        └── source
```

 Any contribution should follow the `How to submit code` using as premisses the
 [Zephyr Contribution Guidelines](https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/contribute/index.html).

# How to submit code

 - When submiting an updated firmware library version, it is important to make
   sure that the last firmware version will be merged. The library version is
   used to be checked at [GigaDevice MCU Site](http://www.gd32mcu.com/en/download/).
 - This repository is managed mainly on Linux. This means that changes should
   be submited using Linux LF format. Usually running a similar command to
   `find * type f -print0 | xargs -0 dos2unix -k` should be enough.
 - Make sure directory structure is respected.
 - Directory names should be converted to lowercase.
 - Exceptions should be discussed at review phase.

## The gd32 standard peripheral API

The gd32 standard peripheral API define all information to access GigaDevice

> peripherals. The firmware library don't have namespaces and prefixes which

Reviewer: `does not have`

> results in name collision easily with both ZephyrRTOS core and libraries. To

Reviewer: `which easily results in`

# Introduction

The **hal_gigadevice** is a set of standard firmware library from GigaDevice.

# How to submit code

 - When submiting an updated firmware library version, it is important make
 sure that the last firmware version will be merged. The library version can
 be checked at [GigaDevice MCU Site](http://www.gd32mcu.com/en/download/).
 - This repository is managed mainly on Linux. This means that changes should
 be submited using Linux LF format. Usually running a similar command to
 `find * type f -print0 | xargs -0 dos2unix -k` should be enough.
 - Make sure directory structure is respected.
 - Directory names should be converted to lowercase.
 - All funtions must be prefixed with `gd32_`.

>  - All defines and enum values must be prefixed with `GD32_`.

Reviewer: does this mean all functions/definitions/enums? If so, that needs to be scripted somehow.

Author: After I sent I noted that all is to wide. Try restrict with public before but yes, it is a bit effort.

Reviewer: This rule definitely needs to come with a script to automate this process, otherwise additions or updates will cost a lot of work, not to mention that it will be an error-prone process. The vendor should also be made aware so that they can improve their HAL naming scheme (I'm pretty sure we're not the first users facing this issue).

Author: Not necessarily. It is possible add a grace period and adopt initially fix only current conflicts with rules defined here until a whole solution be implemented. It can be made gradually too without a driver or even mandatory for drivers that are implemented in tree. Once we define how this will work we'll stop conflicts at review phase and everybody know what need to do. I don't have intention to add a dependency like a script that may block development.

A script is the best solution and as soon it exists the whole solution can be implemented but shouldn't be a block on my view.

Reviewer: So I think the initial approach should be to fix conflicting names, and once a script is in place extend to every public item. Having this bit in the readme without HALs actually doing it will create confusion.

# Introduction

The **hal_gigadevice** is a set of standard firmware library from GigaDevice.

> # How submit code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# How to submit code
```

>  - When submiting a newer firmware library version, it is important make sure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - When submiting an updated firmware library version, it is important make sure
```

that the last firmware version will be merged. The library version can be
checked at [GigaDevice MCU Site](http://www.gd32mcu.com/en/download/).
 - This repository is managed mainly on Linux. This means that changes should
 be submited using Linux LF format. Usually running a similar command to

>  `find * type f -print0 | xargs -0 dos2unix -k` should be enougth.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 `find * type f -print0 | xargs -0 dos2unix -k` should be enough.
```

 - Make sure directory structure is respected.

## Directory Structure

### ARM

```
.
└── GD32XXX
    ├── CMSIS
    │   └── GD
    │       └── GD32XXX
    └── standard_peripheral
        ├── Include
        └── Source
```

### RISC-V

```
└── GD32VF103
    ├── RISCV
    │   ├── drivers
    │   ├── env_Eclipse
    │   ├── env_IAR
    │   └── stubs
    └── standard_peripheral
        ├── Include
        └── Source
```

 The contribution should follow
 [Zephyr Contribution Guidelines](https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/contribute/index.html).

## Know issues

>  - The `timer_init` function name conflicts with Zephyr. This should be renamed
>  to `timer_initialize`, see [ddde23c](https://github.com/zephyrproject-rtos/hal_gigadevice/commit/ddde23cadb1f089263fae2d167e4d83a742d373c).
>  - Some CAN defines conflicts with Zephyr, see [223ccbf](https://github.com/zephyrproject-rtos/hal_gigadevice/commit/223ccbfd8ae4bb6b3ada14e4a44995baeefad762) as guide.

Reviewer: Better create a list of issues and their equivalents, these commits may not contain all changes made in future revisions. If we come up with a standardized way of patching collisions, I can write a script to automate this.

```suggestion
GD32 HAL does not use any namespace or prefix, therefore collisions are easy. Names that collide with
existing Zephyr definitions or functions are prefixed with a double underscore, e.g. `__colliding_function()`.
Below you will find a list of collisions and their equivalents. When adding or updating
a new HAL library you should patch all the names listed below.

- `timer_init`: `__timer_init`
- etc.
```

Reviewer: I think we should also stop using `gd32xxx_libopt.h`, since it pollutes almost every single file (it gets included everywhere). An approach like this https://github.com/zephyrproject-rtos/hal_stm32/tree/main/scripts/genllheaders would make more sense: have generic hal headers that get included where they are needed, probably reducing the chances of collision.

Reviewer 2: For the name conflict, there have another case like BIT, which have same implement with Zephyr.

Reviewer: > For the name conflict, there have another case like BIT, which have same implement with Zephyr.

It's not ideal, but I guess it is acceptable in this case since it's a trivial macro. Still I think we need to ensure that Zephyr `BIT` is always included first, so it is always used.

# Introduction

The **hal_gigadevice** is a set of standard firmware library from GigaDevice.

# How to submit code

 - When submiting an updated firmware library version, it is important make
 sure that the last firmware version will be merged. The library version can
 be checked at [GigaDevice MCU Site](http://www.gd32mcu.com/en/download/).
 - This repository is managed mainly on Linux. This means that changes should
 be submited using Linux LF format. Usually running a similar command to
 `find * type f -print0 | xargs -0 dos2unix -k` should be enough.
 - Make sure directory structure is respected.
 - Directory names should be converted to lowercase.
 - All public API funtions must be prefixed with `gd32_`.
 - All public GigaDevices related defines and enum values must be prefixed

>    with `GD32_`.

Reviewer 2: Can we reserve the prefix gd32_ to driver or kernel developer? They can use these prefix freely with no name conflict risk. That's why I agree with the prefix "__". 
May be gd32_lib_ or gd32_hal_?

Author: Hi @cameled ,

There is no need to reserve prefix for Zephyr core/drivers. The usual naming convention is `<driver>_<manufacturer>_funcX`. For instance, at USART driver we have `usart_gd32_funcX`. So, it is safe only use `gd32_ ` wide spread at hal_gigadevice.

Reviewer: In some cases `GD32_` is used, see https://github.com/zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr/blob/main/drivers/serial/usart_gd32.c#L102

Author: > In some cases GD32_ is used, see https://github.com/zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr/blob/main/drivers/serial/usart_gd32.c#L102

Yes, correctly. However, if we agreed that prefixes are the solution, function names are automatically excluded from conflict list due to `<driver>_<manufacturer>_funcX` standard syntax in drivers and vendor prefixes are not used and should not be used at Zephyr core and libraries. In the case of enum/macros, only newer conflicts can happen at development phase and developer will get a error. In this case, developer should select another name.
